https://go.dev/tour/welcome/1

Hello, 世界
Welcome to a tour of the Go programming language.

The tour is divided into a list of modules that you can access by clicking on A Tour of Go on the top left of the page.

You can also view the table of contents at any time by clicking on the menu on the top right of the page.

Throughout the tour you will find a series of slides and exercises for you to complete.

You can navigate through them using

	"previous" or PageUp to go to the previous page,
	"next" or PageDown to go to the next page.

	The tour is interactive. Click the Run button now (or press Shift + Enter) to compile and run the program on a remote server. The result is displayed below the code.

	These example programs demonstrate different aspects of Go. The programs in the tour are meant to be starting points for your own experimentation.

	Edit the program and run it again.

	When you click on Format (shortcut: Ctrl + Enter), the text in the editor is formatted using the gofmt tool. You can switch syntax highlighting on and off by clicking on the syntax button.

	When you're ready to move on, click the right arrow below or type the PageDown key.

package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
	fmt.Println("Hello, 世界")
}

Go local

	The tour is available in other languages:

	Brazilian Portuguese — Português do Brasil
	Catalan — Català
	Simplified Chinese — 中文（简体）
	Czech — Česky
	Indonesian — Bahasa Indonesia
	Japanese — 日本語
	Korean — 한국어
	Polish — Polski
	Thai — ภาษาไทย

Click the "next" button or type PageDown to continue.

Go offline (optional)

	This tour is also available as a stand-alone program that you can use without access to the internet. It builds and runs the code samples on your own machine.

To run the tour locally, you'll need to first install Go and then run:

go install golang.org/x/website/tour@latest

	This will place a tour binary in your GOPATH's bin directory. When you run the tour program, it will open a web browser displaying your local version of the tour.

	Of course, you can continue to take the tour through this web site.


The Go Playground

	This tour is built atop the Go Playground, a web service that runs on golang.org's servers.

	The service receives a Go program, compiles, links, and runs the program inside a sandbox, then returns the output.

	There are limitations to the programs that can be run in the playground:

	In the playground the time begins at 2009-11-10 23:00:00 UTC (determining the significance of this date is an exercise for the reader). This makes it easier to cache programs by giving them deterministic output.
There are also limits on execution time and on CPU and memory usage, and the program cannot access external network hosts.
The playground uses the latest stable release of Go.

	Read "Inside the Go Playground" to learn more.
https://go.dev/blog/playground

package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"time"
)

func main() {
	fmt.Println("Welcome to the playground!")

	fmt.Println("The time is", time.Now())
}

Congratulations

	You've finished the first module of the tour!

Now click on A Tour of Go to find out what else you can learn about Go, or go directly to the next lesson.
https://go.dev/tour/list
